and what is it all about when we say one
must live it's necessary to survive you
know you really must go on it's your
it's your duty we think no it's part of
our Western philosophy that we think we
have a drive to survive that we must go
on living because some big daddy said to
us
you've got to go on living see and you
better make it or else there really is
no necessity to go on living the fear of
death is completely absurd because if
you're dead you've got nothing to worry
about so you'll be all right so in the
same way this thing here this plant I'm
quite sure it doesn't say to itself you
ought to go on living you've got an
instinct to survive which is something
other than yourself in which you have to
obey
9si living like this plant is something
spontaneous in Chinese the word for
nature is run which means that which
happens of itself not under any control
of an outside boss and so you stop this
continuous flowering of nature cold if
you tell it you must go it's like saying
to someone you must love me that's
ridiculous
if I were to ask my wife darling do you
really love me and she says I am trying
my best to do so that's not the answer I
want I want her to say I can't help
loving you I love you so much I could
eat you and that's what the the plant
feels in growing it doesn't feel that it
must grow it's not under orders it's not
a military chain of command it does this
spontaneous so that when you try to
command the spontaneous process you stop
it what you are basically deep deep down
far far in is simply the fabric and
structure of existence itself
reality itself is gorgeous it is the
plenum the fullness of total joy Wow we
and all those stars if you look out in
the sky as a firework display like you
see on the fourth of July which is a
great occasion for celebration the
universes of celebration is it firework
show to celebrate that existence is why
are we see this is the real secret of
life to be completely engaged with what
you're doing in the here and now and
instead of calling it work
realize that this is play
[Music]